That was hopefully for most of you, maybe
a letdown in the amount of effort it took.
So we're gonna say exercise one and
go to the invoice ID because
literally all you had to do is change
like three lines of code four maybe,
so we need to use the use
fetcher API from Remix.
So we'll get a Fetcher.
We can call this something descriptive
because you can use more than
one fetcher in a component.
And so
I'm going to call this our depositFetcher.
Maybe we'll call it the new
DepositFetcher to be even more clear.
And we're gonna say,
use Fetcher from Remix run React.
And the new deposit fetcher has a handy
little form component on it that
is actually very similar to the global
form that you can import from remix.
The only difference is that this
one does not trigger a navigation.
So no entry in the history stack.
That's it.
That is so you're like, okay,
what do I use the regular
form versus a fetcher form?
That is it.
If you don't want it to be another
entry in the history stack,
then you use the regular or
then you use the fetcher form.
And, yeah, that's it.
We're done.
So if we come over here and
I will just open up a brand new thing,
there's no entries in the history stack.
And I submit another $25 today.
And we will see we still have
no entries in the history.
So this is for favoriting your tweet, for
deleting the deposit for like, in fact,
let's delete this deposit because
that's a lot of money and
I want to see more yellow there.
So we'll delete that.
And that was a fetcher.
And that is it.
Any questions about this?
Yeah.
>> Just maybe a fun thing to expand on.
Is there a good way to clear those values
after you submit or just use normal?
>> Yeah, great question.
So yes, I actually didn't call that out
and I should have we hit Create and
those values are still there
certainly not desired.
The reason that it works before this is
because we're changing our location and
triggers a rerender.
And I believe we've got a key prop yeah
right here that has the key based on
location.
So anytime the location changes that
will trigger a rerender here and
the reason that's useful is that as you
switch between these different users it
updates all of this content.
That actually doesn't matter for
these things.
They will update for sure.
It's just an anything that's
maintaining state internally,
if it's not remounted,
will maintain that old state.
So that's why we have the key prop with
the location key you don't always need
to do that.
But yeah so, that's why it was
working before because we're actually,
it's a new location even
though it's the same URL.
It's technically a new location and
now we don't have that now.
The location is the same and so
we're not clearing out the form so
the solution to that is actually in
upcoming exercises so great question
>> How do we decide between use fetter and
use fetchers?
>> Okay yeah use fetchers is another.
We will not be getting into that today,
but
what useFectors does is it gets
you a list of all fetchers.
So all of the fetchers everywhere in
the application will be in this list so
any anytime any other component calls
useFetcher it's creating a new fetcher and
that will show up in this list here?
This is useful for actually let's see, if
I want to, I'll show an app later when we
start talking about optimistic UI
that uses use fetchers quite a bit.
It can be useful for
optimistic UI in particular.
I think that's probably its primary use.
But yeah,
we're not gonna be using it today.
It's more for collecting existing
fetchers rather than creating.
So useFetcher,
will create a fetcher for you.
Cool, any other questions?
Yeah, true.
>> I guess a general question is to
help with like the understanding of it
is like to me it seems
like it's not really.
Like when you use useFtcher.form
it's not really any different on
the server side is it more.
I guess like how's it
working I'm just kidding
>> Yeah so
as far as the the network request is
concerned is the request will be the same.
So, if we say here's my amount?
Here's my day?
And I hit create this post request so,
it's still gonna be a form data all
of the same things apply and so,
yeah, we didn't need to change our
back end code it'll be the same.
The one thing to to note about
this though is that if you're
switching from a regular form
to a form that doesn't have or
to a fetcher form normally your back
end code is gonna do a redirect.
Because that's like how you
probably set it up initially.
And so
it'll like redirect to the same place.
So that is one thing you may need to
change if you're doing this switch is just
make sure that you're not doing
a redirect from a fetcher.
Unless that's what you wanna do.
Like let's say that you say,
somebody tries to do fetcher, but
they timed out in their login or
something.
So now you're gonna redirect them.
So they're like it's not bad to
redirect from a fetcher action but
yeah, typically what I do I just
return a response okay, and it's fine.
>> Will JavaScript still
be enhancement for
remix application while
using the use Fetcher?
>> Yeah that's a great question
let's see what happens if I say no
JavaScript on the page okay.
JavaScript okay no JavaScript
happening here and
we say we want 35 new thing,
hit Create, we get a full page refresh,
because there's no
JavaScript to prevent that.
And I guess I shouldn't have done 235 in
a row but yeah, it so it still works.
It is still a progressive enhancement.
If Twitter had written their like button
with useFetcher your likes would still
work and just be super annoying because
it's gonna do a full page refresh but
still totally works.
>> That's probably why it's important to
have the invoice invoice ID in the in
the URL, because it was doing a full page
refresh and you didn't have that you just
go like to the top
>> Yeah, exactly, so, like on Twitter,
if you're scrolling down and you like
a tweet you don't have JavaScript,
I mean on Twitter it won't work at all,
but if that was
your use case you'd hit the favorite and
yeah you'd start up at the top again.
Which we just do the best that
we can with whatever level
of progressive enhancement we are at.
But, most of the time people
are gonna have JavaScript,
most of the time it's going to work fine.
But yeah, good to think about
progressive enhancement yeah.
>> Are we avoiding mutations
outside of forms entirely?
>> Most of the time your user
interactive mutations should be forms.
I would say probably all the time no,
not all the time there
are exceptions of course.
But the vast majority of the time
if the user is interacting and
triggering a mutation that should
have be modeled as a form for
progressive enhancement reasons.
And also it's just like
a way simpler way to do it.
But we'll see you later in the exercises
today that and you have plenty of
situations where the initiating mutation
and we can do that imperatively.
We would use useFetcher for
that as well, but
when we get that you can
find out how do we do that?
>> Like button in a form.
>> Yes, I would exactly.
Yep in fact, if you look at the deposits
I said earlier that this was a fetcher.
But it's actually not because we
will redirect from this deposits to
just the deposits page.
So that's not a fetcher.
But even this Delete button
is inside of a form.
So, gone are the days where you just
render a delete that has an on click.
Yeah you don't need that anymore it's just
a submit button this it's progressively
enhanced it's like dang simple there's
no event management or whatever.
Yeah, you will prefer this.
Even though it may be a little different,
it was different for
me to think yeah, I guess I can
just put a form around that thing.
Cool yeah.
>> I have one more question.
How does remix know what
routes to revalidate after
submitting the form example?
>> Good questions.
So remix re validates everything,
all current routes that
are active on the page or
if you redirected then it's not rebounded,
it's just loading all those.
But if you redirected within it, you've
got a parents and you have a child and
you're redirecting between siblings.
And then the parent will
actually also revalidate.
So yes the way that the web works or
the defaults of the web is you submit
a form you're getting all brand
new HTML open HTML to closing
like the whole thing is new.
So remix emulates that same behavior which
is correct, that's the right thing to do.
And in some cases, it may not be optimal,
which is where optimizations come in.
So the default is right,
optimizations are possible,
and we will get into that later yeah.
>> How do you useFetcher to fetch
data not associated with UI routes?
>> We will actually get into that.
Yep for sure.
When we build this
Create Invoice Customer thing as we were
typing in here that's not
associated to UI routes.
That's just a component and
we will get into that.
>> What if we have a postcode and
another route when using useFetcher
other than the current route?
We need an action prop in the fetcher,
right?
But how do we construct the path so
that it hits the correctly desired route?
>> Yeah, good question.
So we can provide
an action prompt to this.
And this action will need to point
to a route somewhere that can accept
that action.
So you'd say like api/ yeah,
that works except you want
to put in the actual Invoice ID so
stringfy that thing whatever.
But yes that is totally possible and
you'll just need to create a resource
route at that path in your
file system to handle that.
We will sort of touch on this later.
Most of the time I find that I don't
use the action prop most of the time.
It's just easier to have
it in the same file.
But there are certainly
some situations where and
we're rendering this component
in a bunch of different places.
All of them we want to go
to this specific route.
We will talk about that a little bit,
not with the fetcher form.
But with a different thing that
you can use with the fetcher.